We are well into TPC anniversary, already in the fifth raid lockout of phase 1, and likely we'll be getting a tier 5 release date announcement within the next four to 5 weeks. Being midway through the first phase, I wanted to pause and take a look at the current state of Restoration Druid in TBC Anniversary and see how the spec has played out thus far. Has Resto Druid performed up to expectations? Are people playing Resto Druid? And more pointedly, are too many people playing Resto Druid? And what do resto druids have to look forward to in phase 2? In a video I put out in November last year, I shared how resto druid is one of the top performers in a raid setting, particularly in the first two phases of TBC. Things do change a bit in tier six when shamans get their tier set bonus, which makes chain heal even better though. But rest performing towards the top of the healing meters has definitely shown to be the case in TBC anniversary as well as the 2021 TBC Classic. on Warcraft logs. Druid is only being beaten out by Holy Priest, which I find to be pretty unsurprising as Circle of Healing is just so strong in TBC. I put out a raid VOD of my second Resto Druid's first Karazan raid where the tune had about seven greens and was at,82 healing power. In this level of gearing, I was able to quote unquote beat out my shaman healer counterpart who is actually really strong when it comes to restoan heal parses. And as I mentioned quote unquote heal parsing, I do need to include my disclaimer that heal parsing is highly situational. It does not provide a full scope of being a good healer and that marks of being a good healer really include making sure that raiders don't die to normal mechanics, that you make clutch decisions as a healer to save players from their mistakes and then being able to just move efficiently through the raid, not having a lot of downtime sitting and drinking, but your raid is able to move through uh the instance uh efficiently and effectively. I really believe that those are marks of good healing. much more so than heal parses. But I bring up this instance for Kerazan because it also shows that when played correctly, Restoration Druid is just a darn good healer in TBC. So, has Resto Druid performed up to my expectations thus far? Definitely. TBC Resto Druid is stronger and more fun than vanilla resto druid in my opinion. Are you having trouble getting into groups as a restoration druid? A recent Reddit post looked to gauge what classes and specs are in most demand and what class spec combinations are being overplayed thus far in DBC Anniversary. And they did this by comparing the overall rating population to what is seen as the quote unquote meta rating comp looking at the top 50 parse group. And at first glance, if you look at his post, the class and spec in his chart, which is the most overplayed, is the restoration druid. As a restored druid enthusiast, this absolutely caught my eye and made me want to take a deeper look. Not only because I saw my favorite class back at the very bottom of the chart uh being the most overplayed, but also due to the original poster including a line item for dream state druid, which through his modeling showed to be underplayed. Now, before I debunk this guy's chart on whether restored is overplayed, I do want to acknowledge some real downsides to playing resto druid that is felt in phase one. The hardest content in phase one is running heroics. And while I do think restoration druid has it better than let's say holy peladin, the majority of heroic groups would typically prefer running with a holy priest or restoration shaman. Why? The lack of a traditional resurrection. If you do not have a DPS priest, shaman, or pi in your group, it is not as favorable to pick a resto druid for your healer. The run back in slave pens is just too long after you mess up the skip and two players die. It wastes more time for the entire party. I had an instance where I was brought in to heal heroic slave pens uh on my alt druid and this was a pug with a warrior mage and hunter. I asked the lead to try to find a DPS shaman which you can't always find. He pulled in a warlock and I then told the group it would be in everyone's best interest if I dropped the group and they found a different healer. Now, it wasn't because I didn't think I was capable, but I was in a pug and I didn't know the quality or ability of these players. And if stuff hits the fan, I didn't want to waste my time nor the time of the group members running back when they could easily pull in a different healer than me and have a traditional resurrection. And if I, as someone who plays restorted out of running a group, I know and understand why some heroic pugs would first look to bring a healer that has a traditional resurrection. So, if you are playing druid and you feel like you're having a harder time getting into heroics, it's likely because you are having a harder time getting into heroics when compared to other healers. Okay, let's go back to that Reddit post. So, looking at the Reddit post and whether restored overplayed, I think this OP has it all wrong. First off, he has a category for each restoration druid and dream state druid, which is very redundant. These should be combined into a healer druid category. I guess if you were to take his modeling as if your raid is missing a boommy on a given day, and this has happened to me in my raid, I'm going to come to raid as dream state. I want to help out the people with getting a little bit of extra plus hit. Um, which is not necessary. Um, you can have your melee and your physical DPS spec to have that additional 3% hit. It's totally fine. But just due to the culture of our guild, I want to make sure that I can help out those DPSers. But if our boommy is in attendance, absolutely you just run tree of life. So let's go ahead and add his percentages of raiders together. You take his 3.85% for restoration druid and your 0.28% of dream state druid to get a total of 4.13% of the total rating population being a healing druid. The OP compares the rating population to the quote unquote top 50 pop. in his mind represents the ideal or meta raid composition. So this is from like the top 50 parses on Warcraft logs. So then he takes that top 50 logs and takes the variance between that and the overall raid population to get what he determines as the you know baseline for what is overplayed or underplayed. Let's go ahead and throw this out because the top 50 is going to be a meta that is simply so niche to speedrunners and the very very top end guilds. Let's play with reality instead. The overwhelming majority of raids are going to bring four to five healers. You have your holy priest, a paladin for tank healing, a restoration shaman, and a healing druid. If you run more than four healers, you will likely add a restoration shaman. But honestly, with the difficulty of content at hand in TBC Anniversary, you could bring a second class of whatever you like. But a general rule of thumb, and I think this actually represents the average group, is that you would bring one healing druid per raid. This is one slot out of 25. That is 4% of a typical raid being represented by healing druid. Now when you compare this to the total percentage of raiders, you are looking at a fairly well represented class with a variance of.13%. This is extremely small of a variance and shows that the overall population of resto druid is in line with what typical raid compositions would be looking for. Now, if you are freaking out and feel like you can't find a raid group because you're playing a healing druid, keep looking for raids or guilds that need a rest druid. The highle view of the population number suggests that resto druids are well matched with overall raid spots available. The highle view of the population number suggests that resto druids are well matched with overall raid spots available for them. I am getting pumped for tier five content in phase 2. While I would much prefer having an option to raid pre- nerf content for tier 5, if Blizzard releases post-nerf, it's going to be a bit more chill and still a lot of fun. In 2021 TBC Classic, Resto Druid was a number two healer in terms of HPS for tier five content. Still seen as a strong healer and is excellent for the end boss encounters of Kilthas and Lady Vos. Bottled Netheragon energy potions are still cheaper than super mana potions. So, I would start picking some of these up to use in Tempest Keep prior to the tier five announcement date. I purchased about 60 of these when they were less than 70 silver a piece and they're just about over a gold currently over on Night Slayer Horde. Tier five gear is actually worn by restoration druid. A welcome change from not really using tier 4. Now you could use tier 4, but you also have the primal mooncloth and white men sets. You did not need to get tier 4 or wear tier 4 as you have these crafted alternatives. Phase two is when the druid epic flying form comes out. You'll be able to zip around Outland in your flight form crazy fast, which is great for any of the resource gathering professions. But unlike the level 68 flight form where you did not need to buy flying skill, in order to begin the quest chain for your epic flight form, you need to purchase artisan writing, which is 5,000 gold. So, if you have held off on purchasing the artisan flight form like me, you'll need to purchase this if you want the faster flying form. As I wrap up this video, I'm curious to know about your experiences thus far in TBC Anniversary. How has it been for you getting into heroics and raids? Have you seen a light to justice yet in your karazans? I know at least for the seven kas I've done across my two druids, I have yet to see one or even the one-handed mace off of maiden. Are you preparing for tier five? And are you looking forward to serpent shrine cavern and tempest keep? I hope you've all have been having a blast and I appreciate you listening.
