What's up everybody? In this video, I'll
be covering the Resto Druid and all of
the reasons why it may or may not be the
right healer for you. As with any of my
other class picking guides, the goal
here is to make your decision easier.
So, feel free to leave a comment if you
have questions. So, with that out of the
way, restoids in vanilla. They were
known for being generally an undesirable
healer, but that does not follow them
into TPC. And that's partly due to the
several changes that were made to the
way that healing overtime spells worked.
There can now be multiple applications
of the same healing overtime spell on a
single target, and bonus healing from
gear has a much greater contribution to
their effects. But that's not the only
thing that changed with druids. They
received a new talent called tree of
life, which drastically changed their
play style. This is a new shapeshift
form that's exclusive to the resto
druid. And like any other druid
shapeshift form, it grants enhanced
capabilities for your role while
limiting your ability to use spells
outside of your role. While in tree
form, you have a 20% reduced cost on all
healing overtime spells. It's hard to
state just how good that is. The
secondary benefit that tree form
provides is the aura that it gives to
your group members. It increases their
healing taken by 25% of your total
spirit. And that ends up being quite a
significant bonus because of the amount
of spirit that resto druids have on
their gear. Like I already mentioned,
there are some negatives that come with
any druid shapeshift form. And tree of
life is no exception. While in tree
form, you're limited to casting only
healing over time spells, swift men,
nature swiftness, intervate, battle res,
and cure poison effects. That means you
can't cast any damaging spells,
crowdcontrolling spells, healing touch,
or deurse without being kicked out of
tree form. That sounds bad at first, but
most of it doesn't really interfere with
your role as a healer. For the most
part, TBC raids don't require healers to
deal damage, and healing touch is only
used in one specific scenario. So, that
leaves deurse as the one minor annoyance
that you'll notice with this
restriction. You're still one of the
only two classes that are able to
deurse. So, it's just something you'll
have to deal with when it comes up. The
other downside to tree form is you move
20% slower in this form. But if you know
the mechanics of the fight, you won't
actually be affected by this very often.
As a druid, you have the incredible perk
of being able to heal while moving, and
this allows you to preposition yourself
for mechanics before they actually
happen. The benefits of tree form far
outweigh the negatives, and outside of
very specific scenarios, you'll always
be in this form. So, you'll have to get
used to this. Onto the druid's healing
spells. Lifeloom is Rust Druid's new
healing overtime effect with this
expansion. It's easily their most mana
efficient heal, and it's incredibly
versatile once the druid understands how
it works. The spell ticks every second
for 7 seconds. If the druid doesn't
refresh the lifeloom by the seventh
tick, the effect delivers a burst of
healing as it expires. However, if the
druid does refresh life bloom before it
expires, the effect gains an additional
stack, and the healing overtime portion
is doubled. This effect can be stacked
up to three times for up to triple the
initial periodic healing. A three stack
lifelume is an incredible tool for
dealing with heavy and sustained damage,
particularly on tanks. But lifelume has
other uses. A one stack lifelume can be
used to top off raid members who have
recently received moderate damage.
Rejuvenation is another instant healing
over time effect and it offers similar
healing to a single stack of lifelume,
but it delivers that healing at a much
slower pace than lifeloom and at a
significantly higher mana cost too. That
doesn't mean rejuvenation doesn't have
its place. For tank healing, it's used
in addition to lifeloom, but maintaining
its effect is not nearly as important.
But raid healing is where rejuvenation
really shines. even when you compare it
to lifelume. That's because rejuvenation
enables the use of swift mend. Swift
mend is an instant cast burst heal spell
with a very short cooldown. The catch is
that you can only use it on targets with
an active rejuvenation or regrowth
effect. So when a party member is in
critical condition and has no active
hots, your best course of action is
usually to use rejuvenation and then
swift men. This combination produces a
ton of healing in the span of a global
cooldown. But like I mentioned before, a
single stack lifelume is also a great
tool for raid healing. And this choice
between rejuvenation and lifelume comes
up a lot. While it's pretty obvious that
in situations where a large amount of
spot healing is required, rejuvenation
is the correct choice. What's not so
obvious is the proper spell to use when
only a moderate amount of healing is
needed. It's this judgment call that
defines the skill ceiling for the resto
druid. Lifeloom heals faster and for
much less mana, but rejuvenation gives
you the option to swift men the target
for the next 12 seconds. It's up for the
druid to anticipate whether or not swift
men will be needed or could be needed on
the target in the next 12 seconds. In
order to make the correct call all of
the time, the druid needs to have an
intimate understanding of the damage
patterns for every fight. So, like I
said, this is a huge part of mastering
the resto druid. Regrowth is another
healing spell in the resto druid's
arsenal. It's a 2- second casted spell
that has a high initial heal and leaves
a moderate heal overtime effect. The
initial heal of this spell is actually
quite strong due in part to the improved
regrowth talent. The talent gives you a
50% increased chance to critically
strike with the initial heal. That's
before factoring in your base stats and
gear. The heal overtime portion of the
spell has its place as your third
priority hot when assigned to healing a
main tank. We'll talk more on healing
assignments in a later section, but a
lot of the spell's value comes when the
druid is raid healing. You see, Swift
Men has a 15-second cool down, and if
several raid members are taking heavy
amounts of damage, you can't use Swift
Mend on all of them. That's where the
initial heal from regrowth comes in. It
also has the benefit of leaving a
21-second hot on the target, giving you
a much longer window to use swift men
should they need it. The next healing
spell on our list is Tranquility. It's a
group healing spell that heals up to
four of your nearby party members every
2 seconds for 8 seconds. This spell does
have a lengthy cooldown of 10 minutes,
and it requires the druid to stand still
and channel it for the full 8 seconds.
This cooldown is so valuable that you'll
probably be assigned to use it at a
certain time designated by your raid
leader. Last up is healing touch, which
is a very niche spell for the druiden
TBC. The spell heals for a massive
amount, but it has a ridiculously long
cast time of 3.5 seconds, and like I
said before, it cannot be used in tree
form. As a result, there's really only
one practical application for it, and
that's to be used in conjunction with
nature's swiftness. Nature's swiftness
is a resto talent that makes your next
nature cast an instant cast. So, combine
that with healing touch, and you've got
the druid equivalent of lay on hands. As
for the important non-healing spells,
you have innervate, which is a
threeminute cooldown that can be used on
any raid member, including the druid. It
works by increasing the targets
spiritbased mana regeneration by 400%
and allowing them to fully regenerate
mana while casting for 20 seconds. While
the druid does get a lot of mana out of
intervate due to their high levels of
spirit, they're pretty mana efficient on
their own. This cooldown is often best
used for the holy priest, which is
another healer that uses a lot of
spirit, but has a much harder time with
mana compared to druids. Rebirth is the
druid's resurrection spell, and it has
the advantage of being usable in combat
at the cost of having a 30inut cool
down. In 25man raids, where there are
tons of other healers, having a cooldown
base resurrection spell is typically not
a problem. However, it can be very
frustrating if you do a lot of five and
10-man content. So, if you like what
you've heard so far, let's talk about
the raid assignments that you'll
typically receive as a resto druid.
Sometimes you'll be asked to be a
primary raid healer. While druids are
definitely serviceable in this role,
shamans and priests are typically
better, but there are times where it
makes sense for a druid to be a primary
raid healer. One example that comes to
mind is during the reverberation effect
during the Grul encounter. You may also
be asked to serve as a main tank healer.
This responsibility is typically
reserved for holy paladins or improved
divine spirit priests, but it's
sometimes delegated to a resto druid,
especially in situations where the main
tank healer is going to be
crowdcontrolled. In these cases, the
druid keeps up all his healing overtime
effects on the main tank before the
crowd control lands. These effects
stabilize the main tank's health long
enough for the druid to come out of the
crowd control and use swift men to
recover. But while druids are great main
tank healers, it's still not their
specialty. The druid truly shines when
he's assigned to healing multiple tanks
as well as light spot healing. They can
do this efficiently by keeping three
stacks of light bloom on each tank and
then using the remaining globals to
either heal the raid or pump more
healing into the tanks. This assignment
is where druids are the most flexible
and fun to play. Which is a nice segue
into the last section where I'll give
you my procon list for the resto druid
and TBC. As a disclaimer, this list is
based only on PvE content. I made a PvP
guide for healers which you can find by
clicking on the top right of this video
frame. So, as I just mentioned, druids
are probably the most fun and flexible
healers to play with priest being a very
close second. There's also a lot of
decision-making on which healing
overtime spell to use in what
situations, and that makes the druid
feel very skillful compared to other
healers. And they bring excellent
utility with mark of the wild, tree
form, aura, innervate, battle res, and
tranquility. On top of that, they're
just excellent healers. Their mana
efficiency is unparalleled, and their
throughput is very strong. As for the
negatives, you're probably the worst
healer for daily questing and gold
farming. Also, needing to shape-shift in
and out of tree form to perform tasks
such as decursing and buffing may annoy
some people. And if you're looking to
play the all-around best healer, you
probably won't find that in a druid.
They're very strong, but not as strong
as resto shamans or holy priests. So,
are you going to play a restored in TBC?
If so, leave a comment. If not, still
leave a comment. Thanks for watching,
guys. I'll see you in the next one.
Peace.
